# Plexus
Parallel Bayesian Network Software using Gibbs Sampling for the Mac
Do you have data that you would like to explore? Is that data in either flat or hierarchical form? Can you ascribe traits of any sort to your data, for example: “the crypt in complex 3 contains cremated remains”, or “group B speaks with a rhotic accent” or “the distance from basion to bregma is 8.8 cm”? Would you like to use information you already know along with the data you have in order to see an updated statistical picture? Would you like to be able to draw your hypothesis using little floaty bubbles?
Of course you do! That’s why you might enjoy using Plexus!
Plexus is a software program that performs Gibbs sampling for the purposes of Monte-Carlo Approximate Bayesian estimation of posterior distributions of nodes in a Bayesian network. It is coded in Swift for macOS, with a computation kernel written in Metal to allow parallel processing of the Gibbs sampler. The software is designed to run many thousands of times on a given network, providing an updated statistical picture of the user’s prior assumptions conditioned on the data. Each individual iteration of the Gibbs sampler is Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approximation of the data, which contributes one independent set of posterior parameters from which Plexus constructs posterior distributions. This process of Bayesian updating allows the user to evaluate prior assumptions based on data in an interative and visual procedure. Monte-Carlo methods are recognized for their accuracy in approximating parameter values under a Bayesian paradigm.
